`asin()` - New CSS functional notation (#20383)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/asin/index.md

---
title: asin()
slug: Web/CSS/asin
tags:
  - CSS
  - CSS Function
  - Function
  - Math
  - Reference
  - Web
  - asin
  - Experimental
browser-compat: css.types.asin
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values/#trig-funcs
---
{{CSSRef}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

The **`asin()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) is a trigonometric function that returns the inverse sine of a number between `-1` and `1`. The function contains a single calculation that returns the number of radians representing an {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}} between `-90deg` and `90deg`.

## Syntax

```css
/* Single <number> values */

> width: calc(asin(-0.2) * 100px);

Reviewer: How about we use `transform` instead of width here?

```suggestion
transform: rotate(asin(-0.2));
```

Same with the other examples in this code block.

> width: calc(asin(2 * 0.125) * 100px);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transform: rotate(asin(2 * 0.125));
```

/* Other values */

> width: calc(asin(pi / 5) * 100px);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transform: rotate(asin(pi / 5));
```

> width: calc(asin(e / 3) * 100px);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transform: rotate(asin(e / 3));
```

---
title: asin()
slug: Web/CSS/asin
tags:
  - CSS
  - CSS Function
  - Function
  - Math
  - Reference
  - Web
  - asin
  - Experimental
browser-compat: css.types.asin
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values/#trig-funcs
---
{{CSSRef}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The **`asin()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) is a trigonometric function that returns the inverse sine of a number, which is a value between `-1` and `1`. The function contains a single calculation that must resolve to either a {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} or an {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}} by interpreting the result of the argument as radians.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`asin()`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [function](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Functions) is a trigonometric function that returns the inverse sine of a number between `-1` and `1`. The function contains a single calculation that returns the number of radians representing an {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}} between `-90deg` and `90deg`.
```

## Syntax

```css
/* Single <angle> values */

> width: calc(asin(45deg) * 100px);

Reviewer: This shows as unsupported on Safari `Version 15.6.1 (17613.3.9.1.16)`

<img width="464" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/43580235/188881740-438ffbf9-210d-4550-8046-aeb47496ad17.png">

The compat table shows full support in safari since 15.4. It doesn't look like it's behind a preference, either. 🤔

Reviewer: I see what the issue is @ramiy: 

* `asin()` expects a number between -1 and 1. 
* It returns a number of radians, representing an [<angle>](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-values-4/#angle-value).

Please see the following codepen which shows how to use asin as a value for a CSS property (`transform`) that expects an angle: https://codepen.io/bsmth/pen/zYjvaKZ

width: calc(asin(0.25turn) * 100px);

> width: calc(asin(1.0471967rad) * 100px);

Reviewer: I think we can get rid of examples that are providing angles as input as this is invalid

/* Single <number> values */

> width: calc(asin(63.673) * 100px);

Reviewer: Numbers have to be between -1 and 1: https://codepen.io/bsmth/pen/qBYOLPZ

width: calc(asin(2 * 0.125) * 100px);

/* Other values */

> width: calc(asin(pi / 2) * 100px);

Reviewer: `pi` has to be divided by anything greater than (+/-) `pi` to work in the example. Same thing for `e`, it has to be divided by something greater (+/-) `e` (2.71828...):

```css
  transform: rotate(asin(pi / 5));
  transform: rotate(asin(e / 3));
```

width: calc(asin(e / 4) * 100px);
```

### Parameter

> The `asin(angle)` function accepts only one value as its parameter.

Reviewer: As above, were accepting a number between -1 and 1; angles don't work.

```suggestion
The `asin(number)` function accepts only one value as its parameter.
```

> - `angle`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `number`
```

>   - : A {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} or an {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}. When specifying unitless numbers they are interpreted as a number of radians, representing an {{cssxref("&lt;angle&gt;")}}. When specifying an angle less than `-1` or greater than `1`, or `NaN`, the result is `NaN`. When specifying `0⁻`, the result is `0⁻`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : A {{cssxref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `-1` and `1`. When specifying a number less than `-1` or greater than `1`, or `NaN`, the result is `NaN`.
```
